alright so continuing on with streams
now we wouldn't be able to use a map method
with a method that expects 2 arguments i'm talking about the code on line
30 because that method can be mapped to
a function now the map method wants a
function not a by function and of course
we don't want to have to pass a method
reference and we can also pass a
lambda that matches the function pattern
accepts one argument returns one value in
this case it just happens to be a method
in the string class that does what we
want to do obviously the method that we
use has to work with the item types in
the stream now we couldn't use a string
method if the items in the stream weren't strings for example so the map
method ultimately returns a stream the
stream will contain all the uppercase
bingo numbers in other words it will
contain all the results of calling the
two upper case method on the input
stream now it's called map by the way
because it's essentially mapping each
item in the input stream to the results
returned by the function argument now
the resulting stream will have the same
number of items as the source stream in
this case the source stream is the
result of the some bingo number . stream
call now remember when we chained
together functions and a function in the
chain would operate on the result from the
last function in the chain
essentially this is what's happening
here each stream operation operates on
the stream result from the last step now
so far we've created a stream from our
collection and passed it to the next
operation in the chain map in this case
and now we have a stream containing
uppercase bingo numbers next thing we
want to filter the stream so that we end
up with a string that contains only
those numbers that start with g so we're
going to use the filter method that's
the code on line 31 to accomplish this
now the filter method wants a predicate
not a function so in this case we're
passing a lambda expression that takes
one parameter and returns a true false
value resulting stream will then contain
only those items for which the predicate
return true so at the end of this
operation
will have a stream that contains ultimately
the 5 g numbers
alright so moving on in the next step we
sort the items by calling the sorted
method so this method sorts based on the
natural ordering of the items in the
stream now there's also a version of the
sorted method that accepts the
comparator parameter but we don't need
to provide one in this case the natural
ordering would suffice but again the
options is their if you choose to do that then
finally on line 33 we're printing out the
results using the for each method but
important note here this for each method
isn't the same one that we previously
used with the iterable interface in this
case we're using the for each method
from the stream class and in fact all
the steps have used methods from the
stream class which if you think about it
should make sense and that's because the
object type return from the stream
method is a stream and therefore from
that point forward every method we call
operates on a stream namely the stream
returned from the previous step
so the stream for each method does what
the iterator one does essentially it
accepts a consumer as a parameter and
evaluate the consumer for each item in
the stream now since the system . out
dot print line method accepts an argument
and doesn't return a value we can map
that to consumer that's what we're doing
on line 33 we can then pass it to the for
each method and we've done so using a
method references you can see so in
previous videos in this section we saw
that the iterator . for each method
takes a consumer argument so you might
be wondering could we have passed in a
method reference so it's not something
like this like a code like this something
we worked on previously so...
so my question could we have done
this system....
.....could we have done something like
that
absolutely we would have but we needed to
learn how lambda expressions map to the
interfaces in the java.util.
function package before we started to
use shortcuts which is why we did
something along these lines
...which is sort of the longer version of what we
got on the previous line rather than
doing what we can essentially do now that we have learned how to do it which is....
.....and using a method
reference.....now since the for each
method doesn't return a value the chain
has to end here because we're on the
last line
there's nothing to pass on to another
step at this point again because the for
each method doesn't return a value so
basically there's nothing to
pass on to another step now because of
that the for each method is called a terminal
operation so a terminal operation
returns either void or non stream
result now since every operation in
a chain requires a source stream
ultimately the chain has to end when we
use a terminal operation now operations
that return a stream are called intermediate
operations because they don't force the end
of the chain
alright so let's have a recap on what
our string chain does and look at the results
of each step so firstly when the
chain is evaluated a stream pipeline is
created
now the stream pipeline consists of a
source zero or more intermediate
operations and then a terminal operation
now in our example we use the collection
as the source but we could also have been
or it could have been an array or an
input output channel and we can build
streams from scratch
the items in the source enter the
pipeline and the chain result emerges as
the other end or at the other end of the
pipe now as we've seen elements may be
removed from the stream as a result of
the operation
so the set of elements that comes out at
the other end of the pipe doesn't have
to match the number that entered the
pipe
also notice that when we weren't using
streams our g64 number is printed with a
lowercase g but when we use streams it
was printed with an uppercase G in the
non stream case we didn't use the result
of the to uppercase call and that was
the reason for that and when an item
passed the test we assign the original
string with the lowercase g to the new list
but in the stream case the map method
maps each source string to the function
result so therefore the uppercase string
is added to the resulting stream and
ultimately passed to the next step in
the chain so that's why the non stream
case prints a lowercase g and the
stream case prints and uppercase G
alright so let's have a look at what
else we can actually do with streams so
rather than creating a stream based on a
collection we can create one from
scratch so let's actually look at doing
that now we are going to be using a stream .
of method to create a stream comprised
of some numbers from our bingo numbers
list now we could do it by changing the
stream chain we've just discussed but i
want to show you how to use the of
method instead let's look at doing that
I'm gonna type...
.....so that gives us a
stream of string objects now we can
create streams composed of any type of
object but we can't create a stream of
mixed types so for example we couldn't
have a stream of string and
employee objects right so let's create
another stream that contains the i and n
bingo numbers...
....
...
....so let's now concatonate this streams together and we
can use the concat method to actually
achieve that
so we can type....
.....note that the concat method
is static
so we can't use it in the chain but we
can use the result as the source for a
chain so lets actually print out the
number of items in the concatenated
stream we can do that with a print out system . out . print ln and we can do....
.....now since count
returns a long value it's a terminal
operation when we run we should see the  number 10 printed on the console
which is the total count of both streams
you can see 10 showing alright so right now
our stream contains duplicate numbers
but we can remove them using the
distinct method which uses the equals
method to determine which objects are
duplicates so in this case the stream
contains string objects so the methods
going to use the string . equals
method for comparison purposes we're
going to change the distinct and the count
operations together so that we are
printing at the number of items that
remain after the duplicates are removed
so going back in here to this concat stream . count i'm going to put .
.....and if we run that we
should get the number of unique elements
you can see we've got the result there
of 6
because it's removed the duplicates
essentially the four items have been
removed in this case so question here
can we print out the items in a stream
but without ending the chain so let's
just say that we're trying to debug a
long chain we wanted to print the
results of each operation in the chain
now we know that we can use the for each
method that's actually a terminal
operation so instead we could use the
peak method which accepts a consumer
argument now it evaluates the consumer
for each item in the source stream and
then adds the item to a new stream which
then returns now since it returns a
stream value it's an intermediate
operation in other words the chain
doesn't have to end so let's try it so
right now we're printing at the number
of distinct items so lets actually
print the items out before we call
count so that we can verify that the
items in the stream are actually
distinct we're going to print out also a
dividing line so that we can separate
what's being printed from this chain
from any other output let's try that
so here I'm going to just put.....
....
.....
...
....
.....
alright so let's actually try running
that you can see we've got the six
distinct items in the stream that was
returned from distinct followed by the
count now the documentation states for
the peak method it mainly exists to
support debugging and that's obviously
what we're using it for here to be able to
print that out as  we go through and show the
elements that actually remain after the
distinct it was called alright I'm going
to finish the video here now in the next
video will continue and will actually
look at the flat map method i'll see you
in the next video